>> Erik: So we're gonna get
into our first subject here,
which is what
are Backend Architecture Designs.
And I love this GIF, because I feel like
this is what happens a lot of times when
people look at architecture or their
design is what am I looking at, right?
It's a huge flowchart and
it's incredibly confusing.
I wanna be able to help you guys again,
feel more comfortable being able to
design these things, more comfortable
having input on these things.
And again, be able to if this
is something new for you,
inject yourself into, whether it be
the conversations at your work or
have an opportunity to explore and
try new things.
So I did this last course and I wanted
to do it again just because I thought it
was very interesting to see how well
AI had evolved from the last course.
And so each section has
a quote from AI that I asked.
I basically gave it a very
simple a very simple prompt on
trying to describe the course
in a very wise way.
And so this quote was success
begins with understanding.
Before we lay a single brick,
it is crucial that we fully grasp
the blueprint for a thorough comprehension
of the foundation leads to a structure
that stands the test of time.
And I feel it actually did a pretty good
job with this, especially with the, before
we lay a single brick, I've seen a lot of
people just go direct to implementation.
And then two months later,
they turn around and they're like,
I have no idea what I just built.
And so I strongly urge if you're
somebody out there who wants
to get a job in whether be architecture or
design.
You have to you have to be
comfortable with building these
things out on paper first, right?
You wouldn't build a house
without a blueprint.
I mean, you could try, but probably
wouldn't stand the test of time, for sure,
and so that's a lot of what
this first section is about.
>> Erik: So let's talk about the
definition of what backend architecture
designs are.
So the definition that we have is
the process of defining the modularity,
interfaces and data flow for a system
to satisfy specified requirements.
So Let's talk about the three
things that it mentions here.
First, modularity, right?
Modularity can mean a lot of things.
It doesn't necessarily have to mean
that you have a highly extensible,
highly distributed system.
It just means that you have to break down
these components in the way that works
best for the problem that you're trying to
solve, and sometimes it means that it's
just one module,
sometimes it means that it's many modules.
The modularity is up to you,
it doesn't mean that you have
to be heavily distributed.
And as we'll talk about later on in the
course, decisions even around modularity
can impact developer productivity
as well as understanding and
complexity and things like that.
Interfaces, so
interfaces is really the in and
out of the system or
of the architecture, right?
How do these systems or
back ends communicate with each other?
Are you gonna standardize the interface
that they're using, right?
These are really good to
consider because you don't wanna
build one system that maybe uses GRPC, but
then another system that uses rest unless
you have a reason for that, right?
It's very common,
especially in backend design or backend
systems where there will be a similar
interface across all of these system so
that you can handle things like error
handling properly or things like that.
And then the last one is data flow,
which modularity and
interfaces impact your data flow, right?
Understanding how information routes
through your system, how many jumps
does it have to take is the interfaces
between the two performant, right?
Things like that will impact
the data flow of that system and
basically how it resolves through it.
So let's talk about the importance
of architecture design.
Because, as I said, it's one thing I
wanna be able to empower you guys, and
I talk about this in the introduction for
developer or DevOps for developers,
course.
You should feel comfortable walking
into a room full of engineers and say,
wait, before we implement anything,
we need to think this through, right?
And so it's very important to
have a structured approach to
solving complex problems.
And that's what these
architecture designs do.
Again, going back to the house example,
a house is a very complicated building or
a very complicated structure to create
when you really break it down and
think about it.
Right, you've got the foundation
that has to be laid.
You've got the actual travel
paths through the home.
You've got electrical.
>> Speaker 1: You've got plumbing, right?
>> Erik: You've got roofing.
There's a lot of layers to that.
And we have, again,
added these complexities to
make our lives better, right?
And so
having an architecture design around that
helps making a better structure
that lasts the test of time.
Architecture designs facilitate
communication among team members by
providing a common language and reference.
So you're not just making these for
building.
These architecture designs
are also there to help
facilitate the conversation
between the teams at your company.
If you want to be able to sell an idea or
a specific design that you want
to implement, it's really important
to be able to show that and
facilitate that conversation
easily between teams.
And so architecture designs can help with
the confidence between teams that may
not fully understand the problem or may
also need help understanding the problem.
It can also provide a common language
in the sense of not like a programming
language, but saying this is how we
build this type of system, right?
This is how we do this, so that in
the future, if a developer need something,
they have that off-the-shelf solution.
And I talk about this in Intro to DevOps,
as well as in the ECI or
Enterprise Cloud Infrastructure course,
which is when you have systems and
designs already in place,
you can move faster.
If you already have solved for the problem
of how you process asynchronous messages,
right, with maybe events, buses,
or workers and queues, right?
Then you don't have to
think about that again.
That's a system that has already
solved a problem very well, and
that makes it easier for teams to move
quicker, especially going back to DevOps.
It'll help you build those systems
as well as automate those systems?
Yep?
>> Speaker 1: Assuming you're
gonna get into this later, but
do you have any tools for
drawing up designs that you'd like?
>> Erik: Yeah, so I'll be showing a few
of the designs I really use lucid charts.
Lucid is probably my favorite.
I've been using Excalidraw more and
more, but lucid has.
Okay, so [LAUGH] the thing to note
about designs is I've had principal
engineers come into meetings with
scribbles on a piece of paper,
and then just screenshot that and
put it in a Confluence document.
[LAUGH] And those are terrible..
I'm sorry but I have to say it,
I understand that back in the 90s we
just had whiteboards but
we don't really need to do that anymore.
And I do think that it it helps to have
your design in a good layout format,
easy to read and
help identify each different component.
Lucid does a really great job at that.
You can pick if you're using a container,
you can pick if you're using a service or
a subnet.
There's a lot of really great ways
of kind of architecting the design
to your specifications while being able
to present it in a nice visual format.
So I would normally lean towards
the tools that help with that.
It might take a little bit more, but
as you'll see in some of the slides later,
it still allows anyone to pick this up and
eventually understand what
you're trying to accomplish.
And the last real importance here
is they can improve efficiency and
productivity by reducing redundancy and
facilitating code reuse.
The point here really is is after you've
designed something you've put it to paper,
right?
You might look back at it and say, well,
this this service does the same thing as
this service and they share some code.
Maybe we could refactor this and so that
all the code exists in one place, right?
And then every service sends their request
to this specific service, which then makes
the decoupling easier, the management
of that specific component easier.
And again, going back to
the house example, it's really,
really hard to have a whole
Architecture in your head at all times.
I know that there are some people
who say that they can do it, but
then when you're talking about multiple architectures
across multiple systems,
I can guarantee you that companies
like Amazon, Netflix, Google,
they've got tons and tons of charts,
tons and tons of documentation.
Because it's a lot of extra energy
to just keep that in your head,
keep trying to reiterate it to people,
right?
That's also kind of tribal knowledge,
which becomes very challenging when you
wanna iterate on those
things in the future.
And so having these designs available,
just being able to say go look at it
can also help again look at things for
improvements, as well as removing
redundancy and things like that.
>> Speaker 2: Do you have any opinions on
how to keep things like this up to date?
I mean.
>> Erik: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I think a lot of places
have designed documents that are like,
I don't know if this is remotely
trustworthy and relevant still.
>> Erik: Yeah,
that's a super fair question.
And what's funny is they do talk about
that a bit in the DevOps courses,
because that was really my job for
a while as well.
>> Erik: Listen,
right now I work at a very large company.
We have over 100 developers,
we've got probably 15 different teams.
It's got to be your culture.
It's really got to be your culture,
the engineering managers need to
be able to appreciate and understand
why these things need to be updated.
They need to be able to promote that time,
right?
I'm pretty sure all of us here, I'm not
even gonna ask you to raise your hands.
Because I'm sure all of
us here have experienced,
we don't need to have time for docs.
Let's just build, right?
That's a terrible, terrible culture.
Pretty much almost every company I've
worked at, I've dealt with that.
And I am a very much
a proponent of fixing that.
And so I think part of that is being
vocal, bringing it to your managers and
being like, hey, I have no confidence
in this, and what am I to do when I
don't have any confidence in
the documentation that I have, right?
And actually, I will say, how many of you
at your companies you're at today have
confidence in the documentation
that you guys have?
Just by a raise of hands
>> Erik: cool so
a little bit yeah, okay, yeah.
So I know you guys on stream can't see but
basically it was like one and
a half people.
And that's really common.
It's really common.
And that should really kind of show
how often companies deal with this and
how little they actually prioritize it.
So I do think that even the culture of
the developer, while you're implementing
the design or going through it, make sure
you spend time going back, looking for
any other documentation, outdating it,
marking it, deleting it.
And you might even find other
situations where the code or the sorry,
not the code, the documentation and
how you're doing it is not good.
You might need to find newer ways of how
to share these things, whether it be
switching to something like, I don't
like Confluence, I hate Confluence.
It's one of the worst platforms
on the face of the planet,
and every company I've ever
worked at uses it, and I hate it.
I really do not like Confluence at all and
I actually had a conversation the other
day with my engineering
manager about this.
Where I was like listen dude, we have the
exact same problem we don't have a lot of
confidence in our documentation but we
have thousands of pages of documentation.
And so yeah, that it's really important
to have up to date documents,
up to date specs and design so
that you can build that confidence and
more people want to use it.
Otherwise, you'll get to a point where
nobody ends up updating anything, and
you don't wanna get there.
We have one more important.
They also play a key role in
ensuring the final product, right?
So really, the big reason why you make
a design is to be able to say, okay,
I've solved the problem that
we're trying to solve, right?
And you can show that through the design.
And even this stage of the design
can mean and show whether or
not it's overly complex if
it's too simple, right?
Once you are able to look at it at a high
level and kind of share it with other
people and other teams,
you might find out that this is the design
system that you're approaching may not
even work or may not be what the company
needs just because of different business
objectives and things like that.
So it definitely plays a key role in
before even spending developer money,
which is really what this is, guys,
you can save your developer money and
time a lot at a company by
just writing it down first.
And spending a couple of hours documenting
that, building out that design, and
thinking it through before you
actually start saying, okay, now team,
go work on it.
You do not wanna build something
that you don't have confidence in,
otherwise you are wasting company dollars.
So sgain, be aware of that.
You really wanna make sure that
you're meeting the user needs and
business objectives.